In this activity we will be using
KNIME to handle missing data.
First, we will create new workflow and
import our weather data.
Next, we will remove missing values for
specific measurement in the data.
We will then impute missing
values with the mean.
And finally,
remove all the rows with missing values.
Let's begin, first,
let's create a new workflow in KNIME.
We'll name it, Handling Missing Values.
Next, let's import the weather
data using the File Reader node.
We'll add the File Reader
node to the canvas.
We'll configure File Reader
to read daily_weather.csv.
Next, we'll connect the Histogram
node to File Reader.
Before we configure the Histogram node,
we need to run the File Reader node.
We can do this by clicking on File Reader,
and
clicking on the green
arrow in the toolbar.
Next, double-click on
Histogram to configure it.
We'll set both the binning column and
aggregation columns to air_temp_9am.
Next, we'll add a missing value node.
We'll connect this to
the file reader node.
Double click on missing
value to configuring it.
Go to column settings,
select air_temp_9am, and click on Add.
We'll then choose remove row.
This will remove the measurements of
air_temp_9am that had missing values.
Click OK.
Next, we'll add another histogram
node to the output of missing value.
We can do this easily by copying and
pasting the existing histogram node.
Now let's run the workflow by
clicking on the double green arrows.
Let's view the output in
the histogram nodes before and
after we remove missing values.
In this histogram view,
we can see that there are missing values.
If we go and
look at the second histogram node,
the one after we removed
the missing values.
We can see that there are no
missing values in this chart.
Next, instead of removing missing values,
let's impute the values to the mean.
We could do this by configuring
the missing value node.
And instead of remove row,
change that to mean.
Click OK, and rerun the work flow.
We could see the difference by comparing
the graphs and the two histogram nodes.
If we go to visualization settings.
And change labels to all elements, we'll
see the number of elements in each band.
In the histogram,
before we removed the missing values,
we can see the fifth column
has 216 measurements in it.
Where as the fifth column after we imputed
the missing values has 221 values in it.
Let's close these.
Next, let's remove all the rows that
have missing values in the data.
We can do this by double
clicking on missing value.
Removing air_temp_ 9am.
Clicking on the default tab.
Changing this to remove row.
I'll click OK, now we rerun the workflow.
Again, we'll look at the histograms before
and after we remove the missing values.
Again, we'll go to visualization settings
and change the labels to all elements so
we can see the number of
elements in each bin.
We can see the number of elements in
each bin in the different histograms
has changed.